doc/source/api/executors/awslambda.rst, before:

.. _awslambda_executor:

AWS Lambda Executor
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""

.. image:: AWS_Lambda.jpg

With this executor, users can execute tasks (electrons) or entire lattices using the AWS Lambda serverless compute service. It is appropriate
to use this plugin for electrons that are expected to be short lived, low in compute intensity. This plugin can also be used for workflows with a high number of electrons
that are embarassingly parallel (fully independent of each other).

The following AWS resources are required by this executor

* Container based `AWS Lambda <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/welcome.html>`_ function
* `AWS S3 <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/Welcome.html>`_ bucket for caching objects
* `IAM <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/iam/index.html>`_ role for Lambda
* `ECR <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/ecr/index.html>`_ container registry for storing docker images


1. Installation
###############

To use this plugin with Covalent, simply install it using `pip`:

.. code-block:: shell

    pip install covalent-awslambda-plugin

.. note::
    Due to the isolated nature of AWS Lambda, the packages available on that environment are limited. This means that only the modules that
    come with python out-of-the-box are accessible to your function. `Deps` are also limited in a similar fashion. However, AWS does provide
    a workaround for pip package installations: https://aws.amazon.com/premiumsupport/knowledge-center/lambda-python-package-compatible/.


2. Usage Example
################

This is an example of how a workflow can be constructed to use the AWS Lambda executor. In the example, we join two words to form a phrase
and return an excited phrase.

.. code-block:: python

    import covalent as ct
    from covalent.executor import AWSLambdaExecutor

    executor = AWSLambdaExecutor(
        function_name = "my-lambda-function"
        s3_bucket_name="covalent-lambda-job-resources"
    )

    @ct.electron(executor=executor)
    def join_words(a, b):
        return ",".join([a, b])

    @ct.electron(executor=executor)
    def excitement(a):
        return f"{a}!"

    @ct.lattice
    def simple_workflow(a, b):
        phrase = join_words(a, b)
        return excitement(phrase)


    dispatch_id = ct.dispatch(simple_workflow)("Hello", "World")
    result = ct.get_result(dispatch_id, wait=True)

    print(result)

During the execution of the workflow, one can navigate to the UI to see the status of the workflow. Once completed, the above script
should also output the result:

.. code-block:: bash

    Hello, World!

In order for the above workflow to run successfully, one has to provision the required AWS resources as mentioned in :ref:`required_aws_resources`.

.. note::
    Users may encounter failures with dispatching workflows on MacOS due to errors with importing the `psutil` module. This is a known issue and will be
    addressed in a future sprint.

3. Overview of configuration
############################

The following table shows a list of all input arguments including the required arguments to be supplied when instantiating the executor:

.. list-table:: Title
   :widths: 25 25 25 50
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Config Value
     - Is Required
     - Default
     - Description
   * - function_name
     - Yes
     - ``-``
     - Name of the AWS lambda function to be used at runtime
   * - s3_bucket_name
     - Yes
     - ``-``
     - Name of an AWS S3 bucket that the executor must use to cache object files
   * - credentials_file
     - No
     - ~/.aws/credentials
     - The path to your AWS credentials file
   * - profile
     - No
     - default
     - AWS profile used for authentication
   * - poll_freq
     - No
     - 5
     - Time interval between successive polls to the lambda function
   * - cache_dir
     - No
     - ~/.cache/covalent
     - Path on the local file system to a cache
   * - timeout
     - No
     - ``900``
     - Duration in seconds to keep polling the task for results/exceptions raised

The following snippet shows how users may modify their Covalent `configuration <https://covalent.readthedocs.io/en/latest/how_to/config/customization.html>`_ to provide
the necessary input arguments to the executor:

.. code-block:: bash

    [executors.awslambda]
    function_name = "my-lambda-function"
    s3_bucket_name = "covalent-lambda-job-resources"
    credentials_file = "/home/<user>/.aws/credentials"
    profile = "default"
    region = "us-east-1"
    cache_dir = "/home/<user>/.cache/covalent"
    poll_freq = 5
    timeout = 60

Within a workflow, users can use this executor with the default values configured in the configuration file as follows:

.. code-block:: python

    import covalent as ct

    @ct.electron(executor="awslambda")
    def task(x, y):
        return x + y


Alternatively, users can customize this executor entirely by providing their own values to its constructor as follows:

.. code-block:: python

    import covalent as ct
    from covalent.executor import AWSLambdaExecutor

    lambda_executor = AWSLambdaExecutor(
        function_name = "my-lambda-function"
        s3_bucket_name="my_s3_bucket",
        credentials_file="my_custom_credentials",
        profile="custom_profile",
        region="us-east-1",
        cache_dir="/home/<user>/covalent/cache",
        poll_freq=5,
        timeout=60
    )

    @ct.electron(executor=lambda_executor)
    def task(x, y):
        return x + y

.. _required_aws_resources:

4. Required AWS Resources
###########################

In order for the executor to work end-to-end, the following resources need to be provisioned apriori.

.. list-table:: Title
   :widths: 25 25 50
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Resource
     - Config Name
     - Description
   * - IAM Role
     - lambda_role_name
     - The IAM role this lambda will assume during execution of your tasks
   * - S3 Bucket
     - s3_bucket_name
     - Name of an AWS S3 bucket that the executor can use to store temporary files
   * - AWS Lambda function
     - function_name
     - Name of the AWS lambda function created in AWS
   * - AWS Elastic Container Registry (ECR)
     - ``-``
     - The container registry that contains the docker images used by the lambda function to execute tasks

The following JSON policy document shows the necessary IAM permissions required for the executor
to properly run tasks using the AWS Lambda compute service:

.. dropdown:: IAM Policy

    .. code-block:: json

        {
        "Version": "2012-10-17",
        "Statement": [
            {
                "Effect": "Allow",
                "Action": [
                    "s3:*",
                    "s3-object-lambda:*"
                ],
                "Resource": [
                    "arn:aws:s3:::<bucket-name>",
                    "arn:aws:s3:::<bucket-name>/*"
                ]
            },
            {
                "Effect": "Allow",
                "Action": [
                    "cloudformation:DescribeStacks",
                    "cloudformation:ListStackResources",
                    "cloudwatch:ListMetrics",
                    "cloudwatch:GetMetricData",
                    "ec2:DescribeSecurityGroups",
                    "ec2:DescribeSubnets",
                    "ec2:DescribeVpcs",
                    "kms:ListAliases",
                    "iam:GetPolicy",
                    "iam:GetPolicyVersion",
                    "iam:GetRole",
                    "iam:GetRolePolicy",
                    "iam:ListAttachedRolePolicies",
                    "iam:ListRolePolicies",
                    "iam:ListRoles",
                    "lambda:*",
                    "logs:DescribeLogGroups",
                    "states:DescribeStateMachine",
                    "states:ListStateMachines",
                    "tag:GetResources",
                    "xray:GetTraceSummaries",
                    "xray:BatchGetTraces"
                ],
                "Resource": "*"
            },
            {
                "Effect": "Allow",
                "Action": "iam:PassRole",
                "Resource": "*",
                "Condition": {
                    "StringEquals": {
                        "iam:PassedToService": "lambda.amazonaws.com"
                    }
                }
            },
            {
                "Effect": "Allow",
                "Action": [
                    "logs:DescribeLogStreams",
                    "logs:GetLogEvents",
                    "logs:FilterLogEvents"
                ],
                "Resource": "arn:aws:logs:*:*:log-group:/aws/lambda/*"
            }
        ]
        }


where ``<bucket-name>`` is the name of an S3 bucket to be used by the executor to store temporary files generated during task
execution. The lambda function interacts with the S3 bucket as well as with the AWS Cloudwatch service to route any log messages.
Due to this, the lambda function must have the necessary IAM permissions in order to do so. Users must provision an IAM role that has
the ``AWSLambdaExecute`` policy attached to it. The policy document is summarized here for convenience:

.. dropdown:: Covalent Lambda Execution Role Policy

    .. code-block:: json

        {
            "Version": "2012-10-17",
            "Statement": [
                {
                    "Effect": "Allow",
                    "Action": [
                        "logs:*"
                    ],
                    "Resource": "arn:aws:logs:*:*:*"
                },
                {
                    "Effect": "Allow",
                    "Action": [
                        "s3:GetObject",
                        "s3:PutObject"
                    ],
                    "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::*"
                }
            ]
        }

Users can use the following `Terraform <https://www.terraform.io/>`_ snippet as a starting point to spin up the required resources

.. code-block:: terraform

    provider aws {}

    resource aws_s3_bucket bucket {
        bucket = "my-s3-bucket"
    }

    resource aws_iam_role lambda_iam {
        name = var.aws_lambda_iam_role_name
        assume_role_policy = jsonencode({
            Version = "2012-10-17"
            Statement = [
                {
                    Action = "sts:AssumeRole"
                    Effect = "Allow"
                    Sid    = ""
                    Principal = {
                        Service = "lambda.amazonaws.com"
                }
            },
        ]
        })
        managed_policy_arns = [ "arn:aws:iam::aws:policy/AWSLambdaExecute" ]
    }

    resource aws_ecr_repository lambda_ecr {
        name = "lambda_container_registry"
    }

    resource aws_lambda_function lambda {
        function_name = "my-lambda-function"
        role = aws_iam_role.lambda_iam.arn
        packge_type = "Image"
        timeout = <timeout value in seconds, max 900 (15 minutes), defaults to 3>
        memory_size = <Max memory in MB that the Lambda is expected to use, defaults to 128>
        image_uri = aws_ecr_repository.lambda_ecr.repository_url
    }

For more information on how to create IAM roles and attach policies in AWS, refer to `IAM roles <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_roles_create.html>`_.
For more information on AWS S3, refer to `AWS S3 <https://aws.amazon.com/s3/>`_.

.. note::

    The lambda function created requires a docker image to execute the any tasks required by it. We distribute ready to use AWS Lambda executor docker images that user's can pull and push to their private ECR registries before dispatching workflows.

    The base docker image can be obtained as follows

    .. code:: bash

        docker pull public.ecr.aws/covalent/covalent-lambda-executor:stable

    Once the image has been obtained, user's can tag it with their registry information and upload to ECR as follows

    .. code:: bash

        aws ecr get-login-password --region <region> | docker login --username AWS --password-stdin <aws_account_id>.dkr.ecr.<region>.amazonaws.com
        docker tag public.ecr.aws/covalent/covalent-lambda-executor:stable <aws_account_id>.dkr.ecr.<region>.amazonaws.com/<my-repository>:tag
        docker push <aws_account_id>.dkr.ecr.<region>.amazonaws.com/<my-repository>:tag


5. Custom Docker images
##########################

As mentioned earlier, the AWS Lambda executor using a ``docker`` image to execute an electron from a workflow. We distribute AWS Lambda executor docker images that contain just the essential dependencies such as ``covalent``. However, when the electron depends on external Python packages that are not included by default in the base executor image, users would need to build custom images prior to running workflows using the AWS Lambda executor. In the section we cover the steps necessary to extend the base executor image to include all the necessary python dependencies that would be required for successful electron execution.


All of our base AWS executor images are available in the public registries and can be downloaded locally from the public ECR using the steps outlined `here <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECR/latest/public/docker-pull-ecr-image.html>`_. For instance the ``stable`` AWS Lambda executor image can be downloaded from public ECR as follows


.. code-block:: bash

   docker pull public.ecr.aws/covalent/covalent-lambda-executor:stable


.. note::

   Executor images with the ``latest`` tag are also routinely pushed to the same registry. However, we strongly recommended using the **stable** tag when running executing workflows usin the AWS Lambda executor


Once the base executor images have been downloaded to the local machines, users can extend the image and install all the necessary Python packages required by their tasks. The base executor images exposes a few enviroment variables that facilitate installing new packages to the right locations so that during runtime their paths can be properly resolved the AWS Lambda. Following is a simple example of how users can extend the base image in their own ``Dockerfile`` to install additional packages (``numpy``, ``pandas`` and ``scipy``)


.. code-block:: docker

   FROM public.ecr.aws/covalent/covalent-lambda-executor:stable as base

   RUN pip install --target ${LAMBDA_TASK_ROOT} numpy pandas scipy


.. warning::

   Do **not** override the entrypoint of the base image in the derived image when installing new packages. The docker  ``ENTRYPOINT`` of the base image is what that gets trigged when AWS invokes your lambda function to execute the workflow electron


The ``LAMBDA_TASK_ROOT`` enviroment variable is exposed from the base image and contains the location of the path where all additional python packages need to be installed in order for them to be available to the handler at runtime.

Once the ``Dockerfile`` has been created with all the necessary Python dependencies, the derived image can be simply built as follows

.. code-block:: bash

   docker build -f Dockerfile -t my-custom-awslambda-executor:latest

Commit message:

add note for pip deps incompatibility

doc/source/api/executors/awslambda.rst, after:

.. _awslambda_executor:

AWS Lambda Executor
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""

.. image:: AWS_Lambda.jpg

With this executor, users can execute tasks (electrons) or entire lattices using the AWS Lambda serverless compute service. It is appropriate
to use this plugin for electrons that are expected to be short lived, low in compute intensity. This plugin can also be used for workflows with a high number of electrons
that are embarassingly parallel (fully independent of each other).

The following AWS resources are required by this executor

* Container based `AWS Lambda <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/welcome.html>`_ function
* `AWS S3 <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/Welcome.html>`_ bucket for caching objects
* `IAM <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/iam/index.html>`_ role for Lambda
* `ECR <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/ecr/index.html>`_ container registry for storing docker images


1. Installation
###############

To use this plugin with Covalent, simply install it using `pip`:

.. code-block:: shell

    pip install covalent-awslambda-plugin

.. note::
    Due to the isolated nature of AWS Lambda, the packages available on that environment are limited. This means that only the modules that
    come with python out-of-the-box are accessible to your function. `Deps` are also limited in a similar fashion. However, AWS does provide
    a workaround for pip package installations: https://aws.amazon.com/premiumsupport/knowledge-center/lambda-python-package-compatible/.


2. Usage Example
################

This is an example of how a workflow can be constructed to use the AWS Lambda executor. In the example, we join two words to form a phrase
and return an excited phrase.

.. code-block:: python

    import covalent as ct
    from covalent.executor import AWSLambdaExecutor

    executor = AWSLambdaExecutor(
        function_name = "my-lambda-function"
        s3_bucket_name="covalent-lambda-job-resources"
    )

    @ct.electron(executor=executor)
    def join_words(a, b):
        return ",".join([a, b])

    @ct.electron(executor=executor)
    def excitement(a):
        return f"{a}!"

    @ct.lattice
    def simple_workflow(a, b):
        phrase = join_words(a, b)
        return excitement(phrase)


    dispatch_id = ct.dispatch(simple_workflow)("Hello", "World")
    result = ct.get_result(dispatch_id, wait=True)

    print(result)

During the execution of the workflow, one can navigate to the UI to see the status of the workflow. Once completed, the above script
should also output the result:

.. code-block:: bash

    Hello, World!

In order for the above workflow to run successfully, one has to provision the required AWS resources as mentioned in :ref:`required_aws_resources`.

.. note::
    Users may encounter failures with dispatching workflows on MacOS due to errors with importing the `psutil` module. This is a known issue and will be
    addressed in a future sprint.

3. Overview of configuration
############################

The following table shows a list of all input arguments including the required arguments to be supplied when instantiating the executor:

.. list-table:: Title
   :widths: 25 25 25 50
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Config Value
     - Is Required
     - Default
     - Description
   * - function_name
     - Yes
     - ``-``
     - Name of the AWS lambda function to be used at runtime
   * - s3_bucket_name
     - Yes
     - ``-``
     - Name of an AWS S3 bucket that the executor must use to cache object files
   * - credentials_file
     - No
     - ~/.aws/credentials
     - The path to your AWS credentials file
   * - profile
     - No
     - default
     - AWS profile used for authentication
   * - poll_freq
     - No
     - 5
     - Time interval between successive polls to the lambda function
   * - cache_dir
     - No
     - ~/.cache/covalent
     - Path on the local file system to a cache
   * - timeout
     - No
     - ``900``
     - Duration in seconds to keep polling the task for results/exceptions raised

The following snippet shows how users may modify their Covalent `configuration <https://covalent.readthedocs.io/en/latest/how_to/config/customization.html>`_ to provide
the necessary input arguments to the executor:

.. code-block:: bash

    [executors.awslambda]
    function_name = "my-lambda-function"
    s3_bucket_name = "covalent-lambda-job-resources"
    credentials_file = "/home/<user>/.aws/credentials"
    profile = "default"
    region = "us-east-1"
    cache_dir = "/home/<user>/.cache/covalent"
    poll_freq = 5
    timeout = 60

Within a workflow, users can use this executor with the default values configured in the configuration file as follows:

.. code-block:: python

    import covalent as ct

    @ct.electron(executor="awslambda")
    def task(x, y):
        return x + y


Alternatively, users can customize this executor entirely by providing their own values to its constructor as follows:

.. code-block:: python

    import covalent as ct
    from covalent.executor import AWSLambdaExecutor

    lambda_executor = AWSLambdaExecutor(
        function_name = "my-lambda-function"
        s3_bucket_name="my_s3_bucket",
        credentials_file="my_custom_credentials",
        profile="custom_profile",
        region="us-east-1",
        cache_dir="/home/<user>/covalent/cache",
        poll_freq=5,
        timeout=60
    )

    @ct.electron(executor=lambda_executor)
    def task(x, y):
        return x + y

.. _required_aws_resources:

4. Required AWS Resources
###########################

In order for the executor to work end-to-end, the following resources need to be provisioned apriori.

.. list-table:: Title
   :widths: 25 25 50
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Resource
     - Config Name
     - Description
   * - IAM Role
     - lambda_role_name
     - The IAM role this lambda will assume during execution of your tasks
   * - S3 Bucket
     - s3_bucket_name
     - Name of an AWS S3 bucket that the executor can use to store temporary files
   * - AWS Lambda function
     - function_name
     - Name of the AWS lambda function created in AWS
   * - AWS Elastic Container Registry (ECR)
     - ``-``
     - The container registry that contains the docker images used by the lambda function to execute tasks

The following JSON policy document shows the necessary IAM permissions required for the executor
to properly run tasks using the AWS Lambda compute service:

.. dropdown:: IAM Policy

    .. code-block:: json

        {
        "Version": "2012-10-17",
        "Statement": [
            {
                "Effect": "Allow",
                "Action": [
                    "s3:*",
                    "s3-object-lambda:*"
                ],
                "Resource": [
                    "arn:aws:s3:::<bucket-name>",
                    "arn:aws:s3:::<bucket-name>/*"
                ]
            },
            {
                "Effect": "Allow",
                "Action": [
                    "cloudformation:DescribeStacks",
                    "cloudformation:ListStackResources",
                    "cloudwatch:ListMetrics",
                    "cloudwatch:GetMetricData",
                    "ec2:DescribeSecurityGroups",
                    "ec2:DescribeSubnets",
                    "ec2:DescribeVpcs",
                    "kms:ListAliases",
                    "iam:GetPolicy",
                    "iam:GetPolicyVersion",
                    "iam:GetRole",
                    "iam:GetRolePolicy",
                    "iam:ListAttachedRolePolicies",
                    "iam:ListRolePolicies",
                    "iam:ListRoles",
                    "lambda:*",
                    "logs:DescribeLogGroups",
                    "states:DescribeStateMachine",
                    "states:ListStateMachines",
                    "tag:GetResources",
                    "xray:GetTraceSummaries",
                    "xray:BatchGetTraces"
                ],
                "Resource": "*"
            },
            {
                "Effect": "Allow",
                "Action": "iam:PassRole",
                "Resource": "*",
                "Condition": {
                    "StringEquals": {
                        "iam:PassedToService": "lambda.amazonaws.com"
                    }
                }
            },
            {
                "Effect": "Allow",
                "Action": [
                    "logs:DescribeLogStreams",
                    "logs:GetLogEvents",
                    "logs:FilterLogEvents"
                ],
                "Resource": "arn:aws:logs:*:*:log-group:/aws/lambda/*"
            }
        ]
        }


where ``<bucket-name>`` is the name of an S3 bucket to be used by the executor to store temporary files generated during task
execution. The lambda function interacts with the S3 bucket as well as with the AWS Cloudwatch service to route any log messages.
Due to this, the lambda function must have the necessary IAM permissions in order to do so. Users must provision an IAM role that has
the ``AWSLambdaExecute`` policy attached to it. The policy document is summarized here for convenience:

.. dropdown:: Covalent Lambda Execution Role Policy

    .. code-block:: json

        {
            "Version": "2012-10-17",
            "Statement": [
                {
                    "Effect": "Allow",
                    "Action": [
                        "logs:*"
                    ],
                    "Resource": "arn:aws:logs:*:*:*"
                },
                {
                    "Effect": "Allow",
                    "Action": [
                        "s3:GetObject",
                        "s3:PutObject"
                    ],
                    "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::*"
                }
            ]
        }

Users can use the following `Terraform <https://www.terraform.io/>`_ snippet as a starting point to spin up the required resources

.. code-block:: terraform

    provider aws {}

    resource aws_s3_bucket bucket {
        bucket = "my-s3-bucket"
    }

    resource aws_iam_role lambda_iam {
        name = var.aws_lambda_iam_role_name
        assume_role_policy = jsonencode({
            Version = "2012-10-17"
            Statement = [
                {
                    Action = "sts:AssumeRole"
                    Effect = "Allow"
                    Sid    = ""
                    Principal = {
                        Service = "lambda.amazonaws.com"
                }
            },
        ]
        })
        managed_policy_arns = [ "arn:aws:iam::aws:policy/AWSLambdaExecute" ]
    }

    resource aws_ecr_repository lambda_ecr {
        name = "lambda_container_registry"
    }

    resource aws_lambda_function lambda {
        function_name = "my-lambda-function"
        role = aws_iam_role.lambda_iam.arn
        packge_type = "Image"
        timeout = <timeout value in seconds, max 900 (15 minutes), defaults to 3>
        memory_size = <Max memory in MB that the Lambda is expected to use, defaults to 128>
        image_uri = aws_ecr_repository.lambda_ecr.repository_url
    }

For more information on how to create IAM roles and attach policies in AWS, refer to `IAM roles <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_roles_create.html>`_.
For more information on AWS S3, refer to `AWS S3 <https://aws.amazon.com/s3/>`_.

.. note::

    The lambda function created requires a docker image to execute the any tasks required by it. We distribute ready to use AWS Lambda executor docker images that user's can pull and push to their private ECR registries before dispatching workflows.

    The base docker image can be obtained as follows

    .. code:: bash

        docker pull public.ecr.aws/covalent/covalent-lambda-executor:stable

    Once the image has been obtained, user's can tag it with their registry information and upload to ECR as follows

    .. code:: bash

        aws ecr get-login-password --region <region> | docker login --username AWS --password-stdin <aws_account_id>.dkr.ecr.<region>.amazonaws.com
        docker tag public.ecr.aws/covalent/covalent-lambda-executor:stable <aws_account_id>.dkr.ecr.<region>.amazonaws.com/<my-repository>:tag
        docker push <aws_account_id>.dkr.ecr.<region>.amazonaws.com/<my-repository>:tag


5. Custom Docker images
########################

As mentioned earlier, the AWS Lambda executor using a ``docker`` image to execute an electron from a workflow. We distribute AWS Lambda executor docker images that contain just the essential dependencies such as ``covalent``. However, when the electron depends on external Python packages that are not included by default in the base executor image, users would need to build custom images prior to running workflows using the AWS Lambda executor. In the section we cover the steps necessary to extend the base executor image to include all the necessary python dependencies that would be required for successful electron execution.

.. note::

   Using ``PipDeps`` :doc:`../deps` with the AWS Lambda executor is currently not supported as it modifies the execution environment of the lambda during runtime. As per AWS best practices for Lambda it is recommended to ship the lambda function with all its dependencies in a ``deployment`` package as described `here <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/gettingstarted-package.html>`_


All of our base AWS executor images are available in the public registries and can be downloaded locally from the public ECR using the steps outlined `here <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECR/latest/public/docker-pull-ecr-image.html>`_. For instance the ``stable`` AWS Lambda executor image can be downloaded from public ECR as follows


.. code-block:: bash

   docker pull public.ecr.aws/covalent/covalent-lambda-executor:stable


.. note::

   Executor images with the ``latest`` tag are also routinely pushed to the same registry. However, we strongly recommended using the **stable** tag when running executing workflows usin the AWS Lambda executor


Once the base executor images have been downloaded to the local machines, users can extend the image and install all the necessary Python packages required by their tasks. The base executor images exposes a few enviroment variables that facilitate installing new packages to the right locations so that during runtime their paths can be properly resolved the AWS Lambda. Following is a simple example of how users can extend the base image in their own ``Dockerfile`` to install additional packages (``numpy``, ``pandas`` and ``scipy``)


.. code-block:: docker

   FROM public.ecr.aws/covalent/covalent-lambda-executor:stable as base

   RUN pip install --target ${LAMBDA_TASK_ROOT} numpy pandas scipy


.. warning::

   Do **not** override the entrypoint of the base image in the derived image when installing new packages. The docker  ``ENTRYPOINT`` of the base image is what that gets trigged when AWS invokes your lambda function to execute the workflow electron


The ``LAMBDA_TASK_ROOT`` enviroment variable is exposed from the base image and contains the location of the path where all additional python packages need to be installed in order for them to be available to the handler at runtime.

Once the ``Dockerfile`` has been created with all the necessary Python dependencies, the derived image can be simply built as follows

.. code-block:: bash

   docker build -f Dockerfile -t my-custom-awslambda-executor:latest
